---
layout: post
comments: true
title: "The Beginning of my Javascript journey"
date: 2015-03-03
categories: javascript
tags:
  javascript
  code
  beginner
---
For a while now I have been doubting my career path choice. I originally studied
Mechanical Engineering and I don't think I ever had a real passion for it.
During school I would just go through the assignments and test to complete them
instead of learning them thoroughly. The only classes I really seemed to enjoy
were the ones involving some type of computer programming, but the concepts were
mostly introductory.

My final two years at school I decided to make the most of my time in school and
take some computer programming class. I took introduction classes to HTML/CSS
and databases, which really sparked my interests. Unfortunately I was close to
finishing my degree and I thought I'd try mechanical engineering in the real
world since it could be a different experience.

I graduated and got a job in the field. I've been at that job for almost two
years and it is very unsatisfying. About 4 months ago I decided to pursue a
career change into Full-Stack Web Development since it involved computer
programming as well as some creative aspects on the UI/UX side. I initially took
an online bootcamp that taught Ruby on Rails and with about 2 more weeks left I
started to lose interest again, not in web development, but Rails. I have come a
long way and learned a lot from the program but I kept feeling like there was
more. Another problem I felt was that with all these junior level Rails
developers, the job market is becoming more saturated with them. It could lead
to more competitive job searches, but this could be meaningless.

My problem as a person is that I overwhelm myself easily and end up giving up
due to discouragement. This time around I felt that I really need to have
patience and retain everything I learn, to fully understand what is going on and
to ask a lot of questions. These are properties that do not come naturally to me
but if I want to change careers I will need to development these skills.

Something that I have noticed about good programmers is that they are always
reading and looking at new technologies, blogging about their discoveries and
very active in their respective communities. I feel the desire and drive to
never stop learning is something I need to develop as well. Also to never fear
mistakes because any feedback on mistakes or accomplishments is going to help
me progress.

I discovered Meteor.js and I really interested me because the whole stack used
the same language, Javascript. It was focused on reactive programming for a
better user experience, which I feel is the direction most web applications are
going towards. Since it is a newer technology, developers are still figuring out
best practices and conventions. I feel that this is a technology I want to learn
how to program in and I really want to learn it correctly.

Forgive me for this long post about my life but I just wanted to provide a
background as to why I am trying to learn Javascript and Meteor.js from the
ground up. At the end of this journey I would ideally have a very good
understanding for Javascript and developing in Meteor.js as well as thinking
like a programmer. This allows me to program in other languages. So I guess the
title should be The Beginning of my Software Engineering journey. I hope you
guys stick around on my progress and learn something along the way with me.
